From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 10 recorded
live Thursday, April 8th, 2010. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Tellerik R a D controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks to
the science of fitness with
John Lamb. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I've got a really
smart guy and good friend,
John Lamb from the Microsoft campus.
How's it going, John? I'm
going to good, Scott, John
you've always got cool stuff.
Every time we talk, we
end up talking for about
two or three hours. I
usually stop by and say,
Hey, how's it going? You
have 10 minutes. And then
we ended up canceling meetings
and stuff. And a little
while ago, I had the
idea that we should talk
about some of the cool
gadgets out there. Cause I
know you've always got good
analysis and good opinions, and
oftentimes they are completely separate
from my opinions. You were
telling me about tracking your
workouts via, via GPS. Yeah,
so I'm, I used to
do a lot of writing
when I was a kid
and of course, you know,
life happens, you know, afterwards,
right? So I had plenty
of time when I was
in graduate school to go
train and do a bunch
of other fun things. And,
and then when, you know,
you're, you know, you get
married and a bunch of
kids show up, you pretty
well have no time at
all to do things until
your kids kind of get
to this kind of magical
age. Right. Which is where
mine are right now. So
actually I have some time
to myself again, and I
can get to go off
and do some fun things.
And so one of the
things that I recently started
doing again, was riding my
bike and, you know, and
being kind of like this
kind of data obsessed kind
of guy, I decided to,
you know, start buying some
more gadgets right. To, to
help motivate me. Cause in
a lot of ways, it's,
it's being able to do
the measurement and seeing the
progress and stuff that keeps
me motivated to do this
stuff. So this, this gadget
that I just bought from
my bike recently was the
garment edge 500. And what
it is is it's a
little, it's a thing called
a it's a head unit.
So it's something that you
kind of clip to your
handlebars on your bike. And
really all it is is
it's a little time series
recorder along with GPS. So
the time series or quarter
will obviously record your GPS.
This is where I am
at this moment and do
that on, on two second
intervals. But what it also
does is it collects data
from sensors. So there's a
protocol called the ant plus
protocol that was developed by
a company that Garmin recently
acquired. And the Amplus protocol
allows a bunch of different
devices, much of these kinds
of exercise, keep devices to
speak wirelessly to this head
unit, right? So it will
do things like, you know,
what the right and plus
heart rate strap monitoring strap.
It will transmit that signal
off to your, to your,
your bike computer. There's a
little thing that measures how
fast to, you know, you're
peddling, right? Your cadence meter.
So that thing is there,
there's another sensor on the
wheel that will tell you
what your four velocity is,
which is generally more accurate
than relying on GPS to
tell you what your, what
your instantaneous velocity is. So
that gets recorded as well.
So what happens is these
guys typically take their, their
workouts. They upload them to
some site. The big one
is, is training peaks and,
and your coach will also
have an account on this
site. So while it's free
for the use of the
coach winds up paying, you
know, fees to use a
training fee on training peaks,
which kind of translates back
into you paying more money
to the coach, right? So
to get this kind of
value added analysis, and what
they'll do is they'll kind
of look at your, your
data and tell you whether
or not you're on track
for the goals that you're
setting and to do kind
of adjustments based on the
data. So you can either
analyze the data yourself, or
you're gonna hire somebody else
to analyze the data. And
more importantly, kind of plan
what the next set of
workouts you're going to be
doing are. And so this
is all made possible, you
know, through, through additional data.
There's plenty of guys out
there Remembering that you have
to talk to me like
I'm a four year old
here because I probably have
the cardiovascular system of a
four year old as a
happily sedentary individual. I want
to understand why I would
care this much about this
much data. I mean, I'm
looking at these screens and
I see like a satellite
route from the sky with
a line showing where the
person ran like average, average
power in Watts, average Watts,
per kilogram, of, of a
physical weight. There's lots of
charts and graphs. Why do
I care this much? I
mean, I understand why I
would care if I was
compiling code. And this was
like looking at on a
kind of dependency analysis and
psychometric complexity, but here I'm
just seeing color colorful information
that doesn't, it doesn't tell
me anything. Why do I
care this much? Don't I
just want to have a
good run. Sure. You want
to have a good run.
It all depends on where,
so the, the kind of
analytical personality that I think
is, you know, a lot
of you see a lot
of people around here at
Microsoft, you know, riding their
bikes and running and doing
other things. Right. And, and,
and not surprisingly the same
people that have the inclination.
I'm not saying that all,
all software developers that people
like to go running, ride
bikes and stuff, you know,
just kind of look around.
Right. But, but for the
people that do have that,
the kind of analytical bench
that they have really kind
of drives them towards, Hey,
I want more information about
what I'm doing and I
want to do it the
right way. Right. So, so
a lot of this stuff
is really about being able
to train at the right
intensity of the right times
because you can't just go
out there and hammer on
every single workout. Right. Cause
if you do that, you're
just going to suffer and
you're unlikely to improve anywhere
near as fast as you
could. If you worked out
at precisely the right intensity
and in a lot of
cases is a lot less
intensity than you might expect.
Right. If you're just kind
of this type, a kind
of person that just wants
to improve, improve, improve, right.
More often than an OD,
you're going to overtrain rather
than under-trained. And so being
able to analyze a monitor,
precisely what you're doing and
give you two things, right?
Both the instantaneous feedback when
you're actually doing the activity,
as well as the kind
of posts, activity analysis, you
know, those are the ways
that you can wind up
making sure that you're doing
the right activities at the
right times. Yeah. How do
we know what this, I
mean, where's the science of
this that tells me that
it's a good time to
work out versus a patch.
Oh, there's an enormous amount
of literature on, on this
kind of stuff. So depending
on the activity, right. So,
you know, I don't know
our activities, but so there's,
if you kind of look
at things like cycling, there's
this kind of notion of
periodization that you want to
do, right. So you want
to, you want to start
off at different points of
time and you want to
kind of increase the stress
for some period of time
and then back off. Right.
So kind of think about
it as this kind of
stepping function, right. Where, you
know, we're going to go
up and we're going to
get down a little bit,
and then we're gonna go
up a little bit more
higher than where you were
before and then down a
bit. So the notion is
that your bite by doing
this periodization and, and by
stressing your body and then
giving it a chance to
recover, stressing your body and
giving you a chance to
recover and doing that on
the right sets of intervals,
you can peak for some
important event. So give me
a good example of this.
If you look at how
Lance Armstrong dominated the tour
de France, certainly during the
seven years where he wanted
seven years in a row,
he took a very unusual
approach, unlike like a lot
of other guys, which was,
that was the only race
he really cared about. He
didn't care about any of
the other races. So he
showed up at a race.
He was using it as
a training thing, or as
a way to kind of
support some of the other
guys on his team that
he would need to support
him when it came time
for his important race, which
was the tour. And so
his entire season was built
around peaking in, on a,
roughly a two week period
in the latter half of
July, right. Which is when
you hit the mountains and
in the tour. And that's
primarily responsible for why he
was, he was as successful
as he was. And his
coach, Chris Carmichael is one
of these guys that is
extremely focused on this kind
of data thing, right? So
the magic number for the
tour de France, if you
want to win the tour,
what you need to be
able to generate is 6.7
Watts per kilogram of body
weight for 30 minutes, right?
That's your, your kind of
your CP 30, if you
can generate that much power
for that period of time,
you're going to win the
tour. And You said for
30 minutes in a purse,
30 minutes. So that's the
average power that you need
to be able to generate
the 30 minutes in order
to win the tour de
France, right? Because that's the
power that you need to
be able to generate on
the steep Hill, right? When
you need your competition right.
Everywhere else, it doesn't really
matter. But that's the part
where you have to generate
your peak power. And that's
where the kilogram thing becomes
important because you know, these
guys are obsessive about their
ways. You know, cyclists are
really kind of crazy obsessed
about weight, right? Because it's
all about, you can imagine
how that affects that ratio
and your ability to hits
6.7 Watts per kilogram. So,
you know, a lot of
these guys and a lot
of the numbers that you
do in your testing, right,
is all about seeing whether
or not you're getting closer
to the set of goals
that you need to accomplish
the things that you want.
Right. So when it's where
at 6.7 to be a
nationally ranked rider, it's five
point something. So, you know,
you, you kind of get
to see the number, right?
That it takes for you
to be competitive, all sorts
of other things, right. That
are around whether or not
you're actually gonna win, you
know, whether or not you
crash, whether or not you're
healthy, there's a whole bunch
of other factors. Right. But
some of those things are
things you can't really control.
Right. But that's one thing
you can absolutely control. So
I'm looking at this website
by a guy named DC
Rainmaker who does an analysis
of this software called sports
tracks. And I'm looking in
his screenshots and this, you
know, it looks like a
pretty fit guy and he
does triathlons. And basically it's
pretty clear that whether he
has a job or not,
this is what he does.
And he, his job is
secondary to, this is running
physicality aspect of his personal
Blogs. He doesn't really blog
about his job. Right. He
he's a, he's some kind
of computer guy. Right. But,
but he doesn't really say
much more than he's some
kind of computer guy. It's
like, when you meet somebody
and they say, Oh yeah,
I'm an actor. And you
say, Oh, really? You know,
so what restaurant do you
work at? They are an
actor regardless of where they
work. So here's a guy
who is a software guy,
even though he seems to
be pretty hardcore. It says
his average power is three
Watts per kilogram. So that,
that tells me one thing
that this guy is incredibly
hardcore, but still not even
half as, as powerful as
he would need to be
to compete at the door.
Oh yeah. Yeah. The tour
is a whole other thing
than just being a guy
that, that, that he does
well, by the way. Right.
So, so if you look
at his race results, this
is a guy that does
well, but, but yeah. You
know, there's, there's a world
of difference between a guy
like him and a guy
like Lance Armstrong. Well, then
it brings up the question
of those. What's the difference
between this guy, this average,
you know, this average physical
guy and me, Well, there's
a big difference between him
and you as well. It's
probably bigger than the gap
between him and Lance, right?
Like, you know, if you
don't do this stuff right.
It's, you know, it's a
huge difference. Well, well, you
know, like, like I saw
you re tweeting last night,
the, the, the, the video
right. Of the NFL combine,
right. They had some sports
Casper guy. Right. You know,
try to do the 40
yard dash. Right? Yeah. They
had a random guy in
a suit, which I thought
was kind of a cheesy
thing. And they filmed him
running as fast as he
could for 40 yards. And
then they overlaid all the
other people on the team.
And it was pretty clear
that the other guys were
three, four times faster. Yeah.
I don't know if you
know what the combine is,
but the Columbine is where
we're prospective NFL recruits go
to kind of show off
their, their physical abilities let's
call it. So there's a
whole bunch of different tests.
And one of the tests
that they do is this
40 yard dash. And so
I think the guy that
the at Jacoby was the
fastest guy that combined Jacoby
rented in four to eight,
which is really, really fast.
World-class speed is generally around
four, three world-class sprinters. We'll
do it for three. And
so it's, it's yeah. It's,
it's amazing. So some of
the things that you might
not expect when you look
at, you know, kind of
numbers like that, my brother
works in this area. He's
a high performance trainer in
Toronto. And so one of
the interesting things that they
do at the combine is
see how high guys can
jump, right? And so there's
a whole science around kind
of measuring, you know, and
training and so that you
can peak on your, on
your vertical cause that's, that's
the best predictor of what
your explosive power is, is
how you, how you can
jump. So you see some
of these giant NFL lineman,
right? These 300 2,330 pound
guys, you'd be shocked at
how high these guys can
jump right there. These NFL
lineman guys, right. Can probably
jump, you know, the good
ones can jump 35 inches
now to put that in
perspective, the average vertical in
the NBA is I think
it's somewhere around 25 inches,
right? So there's 330 pound
guy can jump higher than
the average NBA basketball player.
And which is like, again,
night and day above like
normal, regular people that don't
train for those kinds of
stuff. So it's really interesting
to kind of look at
the, the kind of science
and the sport that, you
know, that goes into training
and for this kind of
stuff. And a lot of
just kind of driven by
data. So the vertical thing
is actually most people do
this just by jumping on
timing, how long it takes
for you to hit the
ground again, Right now, interestingly,
a lot of these people
are focusing their, their training
and their coaches are focusing
their training on, like you
said, achieving a particular goal,
a winning a particular game,
or maximizing their abilities during
their, during their reasonable amount
of usefulness. Right? I mean,
an NFL guy, isn't you
understands he's only going to
play the game for so
long. I wonder if anyone
does analysis to maximize one's
life and health. Cause it
seems like it's always the
basketball players and the football
players that are blowing their
knees out or collapsing, which
makes me think that maybe
they're operating at peak intensity
for too long. And I
wonder if, if one could
do, if, if a coach
could be managing your peak
output such that you're not
trying to win races, but
you're just trying to live
a really long time. Sure.
So if you look at
some of the other things
that people have kind of
created, if you go to
a site called fitbit.com or
you've seen Fitbit before it
does fit, yeah. They sold
this little church gum for
a hundred bucks and you
clip it to yourself. And
what the thing is is
it's got a little accelerometer
in it and, and the,
the ability to record time
series data again, right? And
it's also got a transmitter
so that when you walk
by this, this little sensor
connected to your PC, it
will automatically sync with your
PC and upload the data
up to the Fitbit website.
And the idea here is
what it's going to track
is how many it's going
to be, obviously right? Since
it's an accelerometer, it knows
when you're sitting on your
butt in front of computer,
it knows when you're walking
around and knows when you're
running, if you sleep with
this thing as well, right?
With this little strap, it
will also tell you how
many hours of quality sleep
that you've gotten tonight. And
it will tell you how
long it took you to
fall asleep. How long, how
many times you woke up
in the middle of the
night and a bunch of
other things like that. So
there, this is probably the
most interesting device in the
sense that it records, what
you're doing when you're asleep.
And what that is great
for is if you're back
to this kind of, I'm
obsessed about numbers and hitting
my numbers kind of person,
it helps because this is
one of the few things
that's gonna force you to
sleep more because you get
to see it, right? There's
this old saying that says,
you know what, Lord Kelvin
said this, right? Which says,
you know, you, can't what
you can't measure. You can't
improve. And so, so back
to the kind of quality
of your life and your
kind of sleep patterns is
a really big part of
that thing. If you don't
actually measure and write that
down, you don't know. Okay.
Cause this is interesting because
this resonates with me more
than the charts and graphs.
Sure. But this is a
really kind of unobtrusive device.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
from another parallel universe. Gotta
tell you about some of
our things our sponsors are
doing. They make this free
podcast possible. If you're developing
a new line of business
application, you've probably tried the
latest version of server line.
Now you can get even
better results by combining the
functionality and server Lite for
beta, with some of the
richness or the third party
controls from our friends at
Tellerik, they're the first vendors
to offer native support for
the server Lite for beta
and their rad controls. They've
got a new server Lite
for CTP suite of these
controls. They let you tap
into the frameworks, great potential.
You've got native, right mouse
click and all the new
features of server line. There's
38 controls that give you
all these features. You can
start building those compelling line
of business applications right away.
I encourage you to check
those products out at tellerik.com/silverlight
and you know, thank Tellerik
for supporting Don and rock
supporting Hansel minutes on their
Facebook fan page at facebook.com/tellerik.
Now back to the show,
I did a thing recently
with called a Z O
Z O if you want,
are you familiar with this
device? Zeo is asleep. I
think it's my xeo.com Z
O. And it's a focus
entirely on sleep. So it's
not like the Fitbit in
that it's focused on, you
know, just general movement and
fitness, but it's a, they
call it a personal sleep
coach. It's at my ceo.com
and it looks, it looks
like a clock radio. And
rather than using an accelerometer,
it's actually, you know, I
don't know, zapping something into
your brain and getting a
general sense of whether your
brain's on or not. And
it basically, it has four
levels that it can measure.
Are you awake? Are you
in Ram? Are you in
light sleep? Or you can
completely conked out in, in
deep sleep. And then it
comes up with a number
they call your ZQ from
zero to a hundred or
zero to something like some
kind of an index, right?
It gives you a sense
of how you're doing. And
basically they take all that
data and give you a
nice chart and a graph
if care. But ultimately they
say, yeah, last night you
slept a 73 and then
you can go and say,
Oh God, why did I
sleep at 73? Oh gosh,
I bet you that if
I closed the window, I
would sleep. And then you
get to look at that
number. And it was really,
really useful. The problem was
it was $300. It was
brilliant. I mean, everyone, I
had a bunch of people
went and did trials with
it. There's a free 30
day trial. It's really popular.
Everyone loves it, but what's
this, have you used this
yourself? Oh yeah, I did
the full 30 day trial.
And you returned it at
the end. I return it
at the end because for
two reasons, one's, it's $300
and two, I sleep awesome.
I sleep like dead. So
I don't need a machine
to tell me that. What
did the machine tell you
that you slept awesome? Yes.
And the machine confirmed that
I slept awesome. Like I
slept so awesome that the
machine didn't have anything to
do to tell me that
I could sleep better. And
one thing though, that was
creepy though, from a biofeedback
perspective, was that it did
tell me what I already
knew and it confirmed it
very clearly. Like I knew
when I was up and
I knew like there was
one night where I had
some just crazy dreams. So
then I said, Oh, this
is a good opportunity to
check, to see if it
noticed that. And it did,
it knew that I was
completely whacked out while sleeping.
And the time that I
thought I was it registered
on their chart, Things like
that. Right. Like, so I
think some of the interesting
things about these devices is
the kind of connecting to
your social graph thing. So
here's, here's another example, right
back to this aunt plus
wireless protocol we were talking
about with the garment thing,
they now have a plus
scales and a so, and
there's also scales that also
do things like connect to
the internet via wifi and
stuff like that. Right. So
this is kind of part
of the, one of the
best ways of trying to
achieve your goals is to
kind of engage in public
humiliation and shaming. So, so
one of the great things
is, you know, you go
up and you stand on
the scale, right. You know,
each day, or however, often
you want to measure yourself
and it's going to go
off and tweet that, right?
So there's scales out there
that actually do this kind
of stuff. And I think
that, you know, there, there
is something to this, right?
Where if you belong to
the community of people that,
that cares about some set
of goals, right? You know,
this, this kind of personal
humiliation shaming thing, it's actually
a really good way of,
you know, kind of reinforcing
the behavior that you want
out of yourself. That's really
interesting. I, as a, as
a diabetic myself being a
type, a type one diabetic,
I am obsessed with, with
one kind of data, which
is my, which is my
blood sugar. And I have
a continuous meter. That's actually
implanted into my abdomen. I
have to move it once
a week. It's basically, it
takes about a, a one
inch needle. You shove the
needle in to your abdomen,
pull the needle out. And
then it leaves a big
long sensor in, and it
looks at the interstitial fluids
and then measures the resistance
that, that interstitial fluid provides
the little battery. And then
the more resistance you have,
the more blood sugar you
have in your, in your
fluids and then the higher
your sugar is. And then
it does some correlations and
some magic. And then wirelessly
tells me, plus, or minus
20% what it thinks my
blood sugar is. And I
always thought, it'd be interesting
to figure out a way
to hook that up to
my blog, such that I
can dynamically update my blood
sugar and thereby publicly shaming
myself into not having that
cookie. Right. I think about
does nothing record the time
series so you can do
the upload later. Oh, absolutely.
It has a Twyla has
24 hours of data. Okay.
So you'd put, the problem
is it's probably inconvenient. You've
got to take it out
and plug it into something
and run some crazy crappy
piece of software. And that's
the thing, the idea that
I could just simply walk
by, it would be cool.
I mean, I don't want
to have to think about
it. The older versions did
USB the newer versions too.
Some kind of Bluetooth derivative,
but none of it's automatic.
Right. See, that's where the
Fitbit guys really nailed the
experience. Right. Cause they know,
Hey, you're probably going to
walk up to your computer
sometime during the day. Right.
Considering the audience and you
know, so when you do
that yeah. Magic, this stuff
just gets uploaded. Yeah. How
long does the battery last?
I don't know. I still
haven't gotten one of these
things yet because they'd been
back-ordered forever. I think there's
still order for the other
month. They're shipping at the
end of April right now.
Yeah. You know, they've got
the price right though. 100
bucks. It's just about the
amount of money that I
would want to spend on
something like this. But the
fact that it does the
sleep, as well as physicality,
I think is kind of
a good idea. And then
what's this about 10,000 steps.
Doesn't that seem to be
the number that everyone talks
about for sedentary people. What
does 10,000 steps, You know,
like it's just some arbitrary
number, right. Which, which is
what you need in order
to get enough motion during
the day that you're going
to hopefully climb out of
that sedentary bucket that you
would otherwise be sitting on.
I don't know much about
that. Cause I don't really
care about the 10,000 steps
thing myself, but Right. You
care about GPS tracking of
every move I care about,
you know, how fast I
can go on my bike.
Yeah. Have you now, have
you ever had a sedentary
point in your life or
have you been fit the
whole time? Oh, hell yeah.
No, I haven't been fit
my whole life. That's life
got really bad for me
back in the nineties. Right.
When I traveled a lot.
Right. So when you travel
a lot, as you well
know now is, you know,
you're eating out all the
time. Right. So, you know,
it sounds kind of glamorous
and all that stuff, but
the reality is a lot
of times you eat crap.
Other times you're eating, you
know, at some restaurant things.
So you'll eat, not necessarily
crap, but expensive crap. Right.
And you know, that combined
with just kind of sitting
around all day long, it
doesn't really do good things
for you. Cause I remember
at one point I think
I peaked out at, at
traveling 26 weeks a year
and that was also correlated
very nicely with weight gain.
Right. So, but now I
think, you know, I've just
kinda got to this point
in my life now where,
you know, a couple of
nice things is, you know,
I, I now live in
a very hilly area, so
it's, you know, you're either
going uphill or downhill around
here. Right. There's no flat
in Redmond and you know,
so that's, that's been great.
That's been great because you
know, just riding my bike,
it's a, it's a great
way of very quickly getting
yourself back into shape at
the same time, because you
have no, no choice, but
to climb Hills around here,
How did you get out
of being, being sedentary? I
mean maybe, maybe I'm just
cynical, but whenever I ask
people, how do you get,
how do you get on
sedentary? They just say, start
moving, just start moving. Just
walk, walk. Well, you start
moving. Right. But you need
to do the right sets
of activities to kind of
reinforce the behavior that you
want. Right. So, so, so
for me, I can't speak
to all people. Right. But
for me, a big thing
is being able to look
at the freaking numbers. Right.
That's interesting to me. So,
so by being able to
go off and ride my
bike, the first thing I
do when I get into
work is pull my bike,
computer off, plug it into
my machine and upload my
data. It's like, Oh yeah.
Okay. Now I see what,
not that, I didn't know
what I did. I, I
did. Right. But it's, I
can compare it against what
I did in different days
and other things, right. It's
back to this because you're
measuring it because there's this
act of writing it down,
even though there's no physical
writing involved here, it, it
really makes things better. So
back to, I remember when
I was a kid and,
and I rode my bike
a lot, I used to
carry a, used to have
a training diary and I
wish I could find that
thing again. Right. Cause that
was an incredibly motivational thing
for me, was being able
to, after I come back
and write down what happened
on that ride. And so
for a lot of that
stuff, it's I find that
the measuring thing is a
huge part of it because
you can see the improvement
and once you can start
seeing the improvement, it becomes
harder to kind of not
do something a given day.
Right. Because I was saying,
Oh, but I like seeing
that, that number. Right. And
that's something that you're not
going to have. I wonder
if this, this Fitbit might
be a good, a good
start. I think about there's
the looking at your basic
chart of like where you
sedentary today, how many hours
were you sedentary and then
the number of hours of
activity. But, but when you
say you're looking at the
numbers to just see improvement,
are you, are you thinking
about how long, how far
you went or how long
you were, you were physically
active and you say, Oh,
look, this week I can
run 15 more minutes than
I could before. Like what
what's improvement. It could be
any number of things like
that. It really kind of
boils down to the goals
that you set for yourself.
And that's when a lot
of cases, it was really
good to actually have somebody
else help you set those
goals. Right. So depending on
how, how much disposable income,
cause that's, that's an expensive
thing all of a sudden,
right? Cause you're now paying
for somebody, else's time to
help you set your goals.
And there's various pieces of
software out there that will
also try and do this.
Right. So rather than the
ongoing costs, you pay the
onetime cost for the software
instead, you know, once you
kind of have your goal
set. Yeah. Then it could
be something as simple as
I want to increase my
weekly mileage by 10% over
this period of time as
I'm building my base. So
that's one way that you
can measure your progress and
because you are measuring it,
you know, you will see
the times when you are
slacking off or you're not
doing things right. You know,
you're not gonna achieve your
goals. And, and I think
again, right, that's the course
correction that you get by
having that kind of continuous
feedback, big believer in continuous
feedback. I think that, yeah.
You know, if you kind
of look at where we're
going with these kinds of
sensors, right? Like, so we're
in this kind of weird
place where if there's lots
of these companies coming up
with these arbitrary little pieces
of technology, almost none of
which actually talk well with
each other, like that I've
got hopes for this Amplus
protocol. Right. Because more and
more right. There's, there's actually
scales now that, that, that,
that speak the N plus
protocol. Right? So for example,
if you weigh yourself in
the morning that Garmin bicycle
computer, if it's on at
that time, right. We'll receive
your weight wirelessly. Right. That
kind of stuff. So you
don't have to go in
and punch some number in,
right. So it's all about
removing the friction points and
trying to get the data
around. And I think that
over time, you know, by
having that data and having
that data available at the
right time to the right
people, you can potentially have
much more wide ranging changes
in people's behavior. So I'll
give you another example of
this. So my wife's a
grandfather in the last year
of his life had a
pacemaker, one of these, no,
sorry. It wasn't a pacemaker.
It was a defibrillator implanted
on his heart. And so
what was interesting is when
he went in for his
checkup, right. Every three months
or so, they would kind
of wave this wand over
him and they would go,
Oh yeah. This thing actually
went off this time and
this time. Right. So this
thing actually kept them alive.
Right. His heart had actually
stopped and this thing has
gone off and he didn't
even know. So what's interesting
is, is, okay. So for
an old guy like him,
that was something that kept
him alive. Right. But if
you consider that somewhere in
the future, right, you might,
you might just implant. One
of these things is this
is a good thing to
do. And once you have
one of these things implanted
and assuming that you've got
an interesting sensor network connected
to your body, now you
have this ability for your
doctor to be able to
go off and look at
your time series data of
what your heart rate was
like since you've last visited
the doctor once time or
not just having the doctor,
being able to see that
stuff, but also for you
to be able to see
that same data so that
you can do those kinds
of self-correction of your activities,
right. It's kind of like
wearing a heart rate monitor
all the time. Right. You
know, if you have the
defibrillator in there, you know,
it's essentially the same thing
as having a heart rate
monitor implanted inside of your
body. I'm really hopeful that
the more kinds of sensors
a weekend, we're also gonna
have this ability to have
a device take that data
from your body and uploaded
into the cloud. Let's call
it right. You know, you
know, somewhere on the internet.
So you can do this
analysis later. So, and now
imagine that you've got all
of this data up in
the cloud. I think there's,
there's some really interesting opportunities
for, for us to do
much more interesting studies of
people's behavior, right. To hopefully
come up with ways to
try and correct. Some of
the problems we have is
certainly we've we know all
about the obesity epidemic in
the United States and you know,
what are the kinds of
things that might actually work
as motivators? Cause now you
actually have data, right? Because
before you didn't have any
data about this stuff, I'm
only knows. Yeah. People sit
around, watch TV all the
time. Right. But, but now
you potentially have an opportunity
right. To, to try things
and get instant feedback. And
it's all about closing that
feedback loop. So it's not
just about having feedback for
you individually, but it's also
potentially having large clusters of
people to get those kinds
of feedback back on, let's
say a societal level as
well. That's where I really
see the kind of technology
trends going in this area.
It's interesting from a, from
a thinking about it in
the context of privacy, like
I wish that we could
tell all of these different
accelerometer enabled phones that people
have in their back pocket
to suddenly start acting like
they are a Fitbit. But
of course everyone has to
opt into that. But I
wonder if we'll get to
a point where it'll just
be in your pocket and,
and maybe, maybe you'll have
to see this is the
thing. Every time you think
every time you try to
think revolutionary, it starts sounding
like 1984 and you're spying
on everyone. It's like, well,
you know, maybe if you
want to have a really
good health insurance, then you
have to turn on your
phone and it'll tell us
whether or not you're a
fat ass or not. Yeah.
Those privacy things are really
scary, right? Like you take
a look at another little
gadget that the Nike has
come up with, right? The,
the Nike plus stuff where
you, you essentially insert, it's
not an accelerometer, it's actually
a switch that you put
in your shoe. Right. So
when you step on it,
the switch goes off. And
when you, when you step
off of it, right, the
switch, it turns on and
turns off. And, and so
there's a little computer probably
load computer, but it is,
it's a little computer inside
of this little pod that
you put in your shoe.
And what it does is
it measures the time between
the switches going on and
off, right. Based on that,
it can determine how fast
you're going. Right. So lots
of people have that, you
know, the Nike plus shoes
actually have a little kind
of insert. Those kind of
carved out section of the
shoe that you can plug.
One of these things into.
And people actually around here
at university of Washington have
gone off and use that
to invade people's private privacy.
Right. Cause they have a
little sensor that can also
listen in on the signal.
Right. That's being admitted by
the sink. Cause it's a
wireless transmission to some kind
of unit. It could be
your iPod or it could
be, you know, a phone,
a little watch that you
get from Nike. So people
listen in on this. And
so they actually identify individuals
when they go by. Right.
Cause each one of these
things has a unique ID.
Right. And so they can
kind of track where people
are going and stuff right.
Over some limited range. Right.
Cause you'd have to have
these sensors everywhere, right. To
track where everybody goes, but
it's things like that. Right.
But the reality is if
you carry a cell phone,
right. Somebody somewhere knows where
you are. If they intended
to, if they wanted to
know yeah. Yes. The data
is there. Right. They might
not be looking all the
time, but who knows? Right.
Interesting. Well, you've given me
a lot to think about
John. I really appreciate you
sitting down today and talking
to me about technology and
fitness. Sure. Yeah, no worries.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
talk to you again next
week.